Blog for secure webhook management (#5285)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2019/webhook/index.md

---
title: Secure webhook management
description: A more secure way to manage Istio webhooks.
publishdate: 2019-10-29
attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [security, kubernetes, webhook]
target_release: 1.4
---

> Istio has two webhooks: Galley and Sidecar Injector. Both of them are critical to Istio,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Istio has two webhooks: Galley and Sidecar Injector. Both of them are crucial for Istio,
```

Author: Done, thank you!

with Galley validating Kubernetes resources and Sidecar Injector injecting Istio
sidecar containers.

By default, Galley and Sidecar Injector manage their own webhook configurations, which may
have a security risk if they are compromised (e.g., by buffer overflow attacks). Configuring
a webhook is a highly privileged operation as a webhook may monitor and mutate all
Kubernetes resources. In the following example, the attacker compromises
Galley and modifies the webhook configuration of Galley to eavesdrop all Kubernetes secrets
(the `clientConfig` is modified by the attacker to direct the `secrets` resources to the
a service owned by the attacker).

> {{< image width="70%"

Reviewer: The removal of the name Chiron from the text makes the diagram confusing now because Chiron is the center highlight in the diagram, so it leaves the reader wondering what Chiron is. We should either relabel the Chiron component in the diagram with a user-focused term, or just put the Chiron name back into the text and leave the diagram alone. 

Everything else looks great, thanks!!!

> {{< image width="70%"

Reviewer: The removal of the name Chiron from the text makes the diagram confusing now because Chiron is the center highlight in the diagram, so it leaves the reader wondering what Chiron is. We should either relabel the Chiron component in the diagram with a user-focused term, or just put the Chiron name back into the text and leave the diagram alone. 

Everything else looks great, thanks!!!

    link="./example_attack.png"
    caption="An example attack"
    >}}

> In Istio 1.4, we introduce a new feature that uses `istioctl` to securely manage webhooks, with which:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To protect against this kind of attack, Istio 1.4 introduces a new feature to securely manage 
webhooks using `istioctl`:
```

Author: Done, thank you!

---
title: Secure webhook management
description: A more secure way to manage Istio webhooks.

> publishdate: 2019-10-29

Reviewer 2: Should the date of both of your blogs be changed to align with the release date?

Author: Done.

attribution: Lei Tang (Google)
keywords: [security, kubernetes, webhook]
target_release: 1.4
---

> Istio has two webhooks: Galley and Sidecar Injector. Both of them are crucial for Istio,

Reviewer 3: Do not capitalize the sidecar injector unless you are referring specifically to the value in a config file.
```suggestion
Istio has two webhooks: Galley and the sidecar injector. Both of them are crucial for Istio,
```

Author: Revised accordingly.

with Galley validating Kubernetes resources and the sidecar injector injecting Istio

> sidecar containers.

Reviewer 4: Istio has two webhooks: Galley and the sidecar injector. ~Both of them are crucial for Istio,
with~ Galley validates Kubernetes resources and the sidecar injector injects~ing~ sidecar containers into Istio
~sidecar containers~.

Author: Revised accordingly.

By default, Galley and Sidecar Injector manage their own webhook configurations, which may

> have a security risk if they are compromised (e.g., by buffer overflow attacks). Configuring

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
have a security risk if they are compromised, for example, through buffer overflow attacks. Configuring
```

Author: Revised accordingly.

> have a security risk if they are compromised, for example, through buffer overflow attacks. Configuring

Reviewer 4: By default, Galley and the sidecar injector manage their own webhook configurations.~,which may
have~ This can pose a security risk if they are compromised, for example, through buffer overflow attacks. Configuring

Author: Revised accordingly.

Configuring a webhook is a highly privileged operation as a webhook may monitor and mutate all

> Kubernetes resources. In the following example, the attacker compromises

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Kubernetes resources.

In the following example, an attacker compromises
```

Author: Done.

> Galley and modifies the webhook configuration of Galley to eavesdrop all Kubernetes secrets

Reviewer 4: lley and modifies the webhook configuration of Galley to eavesdrop on all Kubernetes secrets

Author: Revised accordingly.

(the `clientConfig` is modified by the attacker to direct the `secrets` resources to the

> a service owned by the attacker).

Reviewer 4: (the `clientConfig` is modified by the attacker to direct the `secrets` resources to ~the~
a service owned by the attacker).

Author: Revised accordingly.

{{< image width="70%"
    link="./example_attack.png"
    caption="An example attack"
    >}}

To protect against this kind of attack, Istio 1.4 introduces a new feature to securely manage
webhooks using `istioctl`:

> 1. `istioctl`, instead of Galley and Sidecar Injector, manage the webhook configurations.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph is very confusing. @lei-tang What are the features introduced? You are not talking about `istioctl` but rather the ability to use `istioctl` to perform certain operations. Please revisit the text on this list and mke it clear to the readers the following:
- What new operations they can perform using `istioctl`?
- What are the new sub-commands or flags?

Author: The feature introduced is istioctl, instead of Galley and the sidecar injector, manage the webhook configurations. The sentences here highlights the advantages of the new feature; the details of the new feature is in the user guide.

> Galley and the sidecar injector are de-privileged such that even if they are compromised, they

Reviewer 4: Galley and the sidecar injector are de-privileged ~such that~ so even if they are compromised, they

Author: Revised accordingly.

will not be able to alter the webhook configurations.

1. Before configuring a webhook, `istioctl` will verify the webhook server is up

> and that the certificate chain used by the webhook server is valid, which reduces the errors

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and that the certificate chain used by the webhook server is valid. This reduces the errors
```

Author: Done.

> caused by an unready server and by invalid certificates.

Reviewer 2: Not sure what this is saying? Maybe:
```suggestion
that can occur before a server is ready or has invalid certificates.
```

Author: Done.

> and whether the certificate chain used by the webhook server is valid, which reduces the errors

Reviewer 4: Before configuring a webhook, `istioctl` will verify ~whether~ the webhook server is up
and ~whether~ that the certificate chain used by the webhook server is valid, which reduces the errors

Author: Revised accordingly.

> To try this new feature, please follow its [user guide](/docs/setup/security/webhook).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To try this new feature, refer to the [Istio webhook management task](/docs/setup/security/webhook).
```

Author: Done.

> To try this new feature, please follow its [user guide](/docs/setup/install/webhook).

Reviewer 3: Do not introduce the content for this functionality as part of our setup guide. The content should be within `/docs/tasks/security/`

Author: Revised accordingly.

By default, Galley and the sidecar injector manage their own webhook configurations.
This can pose a security risk if they are compromised, for example, through buffer overflow attacks.
Configuring a webhook is a highly privileged operation as a webhook may monitor and mutate all
Kubernetes resources.

In the following example, the attacker compromises
Galley and modifies the webhook configuration of Galley to eavesdrop on all Kubernetes secrets
(the `clientConfig` is modified by the attacker to direct the `secrets` resources to
a service owned by the attacker).

{{< image width="70%"
    link="./example_attack.png"
    caption="An example attack"
    >}}

To protect against this kind of attack, Istio 1.4 introduces a new feature to securely manage
webhooks using `istioctl`:

1. `istioctl`, instead of Galley and the sidecar injector, manage the webhook configurations.
Galley and the sidecar injector are de-privileged so even if they are compromised, they
will not be able to alter the webhook configurations.

1. Before configuring a webhook, `istioctl` will verify the webhook server is up
and that the certificate chain used by the webhook server is valid. This reduces the errors

> that can occur before a server is ready or has invalid certificates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that can occur before a server is ready or if a server has invalid certificates.
```

Author: Done.
